
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73840 ***





                                CHO-CHO
                                 _and_
                            THE HEALTH FAIRY


                            _Six Stories by_
                       ELEANOR GLENDOWER GRIFFITH

                            _Illustrated by
                           JESSIE GILLESPIE_

[Illustration: CHILD HEALTH]

                          _HEALTH IN EDUCATION
                          EDUCATION IN HEALTH_


                                New York
                         THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                                  1922

                         _All rights reserved_




                            COPYRIGHT, 1919

                       CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
                               OF AMERICA




                              DEDICATED TO
                         THE FAIRY GODMOTHER OF
                       CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
                               OF AMERICA

                       _Mrs. Frederick Peterson_

[Illustration: [Child]]

[Illustration: _Keep up your courage little Fairy_]




                      The House the Children Built


Once upon a time there lived a good and beautiful Fairy named Health,
and she was very happy, for all around were flowers and trees and birds
and in the midst of these, her house.

Now Health’s house was built of bricks and shingles and lovely colored
glass. One day when the sky was blue and the sun shining, down the road
came an ugly old Witch. Her face was hard and her eyes were very cruel.
She stopped in front of Health’s lovely garden and from her pocket drew
forth a yellow ball and threw it with all her strength toward the house.

It settled on the roof, and where it fell there sprang forth fire, which
spread and spread over the house, until it was a mass of flames. Fairy
Health ran to the well for water, but before her tiny hands could draw
the water up from the well, her house was burnt beyond all help.

When the Witch, whose name was Ignorance, saw the harm she had done, she
laughed a cruel laugh and hobbled down the road.

Poor little Fairy Health sank upon the grass in her garden and cried. At
last she was conscious of a voice and looking up, saw in a green bush
quite near a lovely Bird, who said: “Keep up your courage, Fairy, for I
will tell you how to build your house anew.”

Health dried her eyes upon a sweet geranium leaf, and asked him how that
could possibly be done.

The Bird replied: “It can be done by the hands of Children alone. Every
time a Child learns to eat the right food, a brick shall be added to
your house, every time a Child learns to sleep in the sweet fresh air, a
shingle shall be put upon the roof. And every time a Child learns to
play and be happy, a colored glass shall be added to the windows.”

“But alas!” said Fairy Health, “How shall we teach the Children these
things?”

“I will go to the Teachers who are wise and good,” said the Bird, “and
tell them what to do.”

So the Bird, whose name was Education, started on his journey. He took
his brother Rumor with him to help tell the Teachers, because there were
a great many Teachers to be told about the Children’s health.

Far and near these wise birds traveled, to little towns and to big
cities, and everywhere the Teachers listened to their story, until in
all that great country, the Children were taught to eat wholesome food,
to sleep in the sweet fresh air, and to play and be happy.

And as the Children grew healthy and happy, the bricks were added to the
Fairy’s house, and shingles were put upon the roof. Lovely colored glass
filled up the broken windows, and once again there stood among the trees
and flowers a house so beautiful that strangers, passing by, paused to
admire it. Health often invited them to rest in her garden, and as she
refreshed them with sparkling water from the well, she told the story of
her house, and how Children had rebuilt it for her.

[Illustration: [Birds]]

[Illustration: _What is that.
O powerful Witch._]




                          The Magic Oat Field


One day as the Fairy Health sat within her Rose Arbor, there came
walking down the road a tiny Elf. He had a merry face and a bright
smile, and pausing beside the Garden Gate, he asked:

“Does Health live here?”

“I am Health,” said the Fairy, and rose to greet him. The Elf drew from
his pocket a little card, on which was written “Cho-Cho, the Friend of
Children,” and presented it to the Fairy.

“I come,” he said, “to view the wonders of your Garden, and to learn
from you the secrets of a Child’s Heart.”

The good Fairy took Cho-Cho’s hand and leading him by many lovely paths,
came at length into a Field of ripening Oats. On the borders of the
Field grew flowers of many colors, and the air was filled with perfume.

Health paused and said: “As long as these beautiful Oats flourish I know
that everywhere in all this great country Children can eat Oatmeal for
their breakfast and grow strong and healthy, but if the Oats should
wither and die, something dreadful would happen to the Children.”

Even as she spoke, a strange light settled on the Oat Field, and the
beautiful waving grain began to shrivel and wither away.

A look of terror came into the Fairy’s eyes. As Cho-Cho turned to clasp
her hand in sympathy, suddenly there stood beside him a handsome Persian
Cat.

“Don’t lose heart, little Fairy,” said Puss, “I will help you. Last
night, as I was walking in the moonlight, I saw an ugly old Witch creep
into your garden.

“In her hand she carried a large strong box. I hid behind a bush and saw
her open the box. As she raised the lid, out sprang swarms of tiny
insects and flew toward the Oat Field. The Witch laughed a harsh laugh,
and said, ‘Go, little imps—work quickly, for your time is short.’

“I understand magic, Fairy, and can change at will into any shape that
pleases me—so in the twinkling of an eye I became a Witch too, and
walking slowly forward, I said, ‘A fine night, Madam Witch. What do you
here?’

“The old Witch jumped when she heard my voice, but seeing it was only a
Witch like herself, she grinned horribly and said: ‘I have persuaded
hundreds of children to stop eating Oatmeal, and every time a Child
refuses Oatmeal, one of these little imps is born. Before tomorrow night
the Fairy’s Oat Field will be withered and dead. One thing only can stop
these imps of mine,’ she chuckled.

“‘What is that, O powerful Witch?’ I asked.

“‘I must be bound fast with chains of steel. If such a thing could
happen my imps would quickly die and the Children would eat Oatmeal
again and the Field regain its beauty, but ha! ha! no one can bind me.’

“‘You must be very clever, Madam Witch,’ I said, ‘But it grows late and
I must away.’

“So I left her there and went to my home.”

“What shall I do?” the little Fairy cried. “What shall I do?”

“Be not discouraged, Fairy,” said the Persian Cat, “I am your friend,
follow me.”

Down the road the cat led them for fully half a mile, until they came to
a forest of fir trees. Quiet reigned within the wood. It was so very
still that even their soft footsteps on the pine needles could be heard.
There was no light except from far above their heads, where the blue sky
shone through the green branches of the trees.

Puss went on and on, until Cho-Cho and the Fairy were growing quite
tired. At last he stopped before a huge tree whose branches touched the
ground. Parting these, the Cat entered, and followed by his two friends,
stood beside the Tree.

                 “Wonderful, Wonderful, Wonderful Tree,
                 Open, Oh open your door unto me!”

Slowly the trunk of the great Tree opened and they beheld a narrow
stairway leading down, down, farther than their eyes could see.

“Come,” said the Cat, “the Witch lives here. Step lightly or we may
rouse her.”

Softly, very softly, they crept down those narrow steps, until at last
they entered a dark room. Its only light came from a fire of coals, and
before this fire the Witch lay sleeping. Springing upon her, Puss bound
her arms and feet with chains of steel, and she lay helpless before
them, uttering cries of hate and wickedness.

“Wonderful Cat, who are you?” said Cho-Cho.

“I am Knowledge,” said the Cat, “and this cruel Witch is Ignorance, who
spends her life plotting against the health of Children. Between us
there is always war. Lie there, Ignorance, while the Children you wish
to kill grow strong and healthy. Fairy, your Oat Field is beautiful
again.”

Leaving the dark home of Ignorance, they traveled through the sweet
scented forest, back to the garden of the Fairy Health. There they found
that the Cat had told them true, for the Oat Field was beautiful beyond
words. The blue sky smiled above, and the summer wind blew over it,
carrying the perfume of a thousand flowers, and all the world seemed
full of peace.

“Cat, dear Cat, what can we do for you?” said Cho-Cho.

“Only this,” said Puss, “help me to fight Ignorance.”

From his finger the Cat took two tiny rings. One he gave to Cho-Cho and
one to the Fairy.

“If ever again this cruel Witch arises to destroy the Children’s
Oatmeal, turn this ring upon your finger twice and say:

                        “Knowledge, Knowledge,
                        Wherever you be,
                        Come, Oh, come,
                        The Children need Thee!”

And as he said this, Puss waved a gay “Good-bye” and walked gracefully
away.

[Illustration: [Cat]]

[Illustration: _He saw a little boy thin and pale._]




                          The Wonderful Window


Cho-Cho, a tiny Elf, built his house upon the roof of a tall office
building in a great city. He chose a sunny corner of the chimney, and
there with sticks and strings, brought to him by his friends, the
Sparrows, he erected a cozy little Home.

On the outside, it was quite pretty, but after you entered the door and
saw the fire on the hearth, and Cho-Cho’s armchair and books beside it,
you decided that it was the most charming little house in all that noisy
city.

Now within this house was a Magic Window, and from this window Cho-Cho
could look into all the homes where Children lived.

Sitting beside the Magic Window one day, Cho-Cho beheld a sight that
filled his heart with pity. In a dingy room he saw a thin, pale little
Boy, sitting beside a rough table, on which the only food was some cheap
buns and coffee. As Cho-Cho looked, he saw the Child try to raise the
heavy cup to his lips, but his little hands were far too weak, and it
fell with a crash upon the floor, breaking into many pieces, and
spilling the coffee. Now this Child loved coffee, because all his life
he had been used to drinking it. As he saw the coffee wasted on the
floor, he laid his head upon the table and cried and cried and cried.
Presently he fell asleep.

As he slept, Cho-Cho stood beside him, and taking his hand, led him far,
far away from the great city and all its noise and danger. When the
little Boy woke, he was walking down a quiet country road and Cho-Cho
was with him. Wild grass and violets grew along this road, and far away
on either side stretched fields of lovely clover, whose pink blossoms
swayed in the wind.

Passing through a gateway, they entered the field. And now they saw an
old farm house surrounded by trees. In the door stood a Sweet-faced
Woman, who looked at them with kindly interest.

“Lady,” said Cho-Cho, “this little Boy has no Mother. Will you give him
a glass of your good milk? He is very faint.”

Then a strange thing happened. Cho-Cho vanished. He had been standing
right beside the little Boy and then suddenly he was gone.

The little Boy began to cry, and the Farmer’s Wife, whose heart was full
of love for children, and who had none of her own, gathered him up in
her strong arms, and carried him into the large kitchen.

Here she gave him fresh Brown Bread to eat and Milk that was sweet and
cool, and he ate and ate, until he could eat no more.

As the days went by, the good Woman learned to love the little Boy as if
he were her own, and he grew so strong and healthy that no one would
have imagined him the same lonely Child that Cho-Cho had brought to the
Farm House. All day long he played in the sweet clover-scented air,
sometimes with the little calves in the field, but more often beside the
Dairy, where the Sweet-faced Woman spent so much of her time.

The Dairy was built of stone, and the walls were thick and deep. A
little stream ran through it, and in a stone trough stood great crocks
of Milk, Milk to make Children strong and healthy, for nothing in all
the world is so good for Children as Milk. The stream sang among the
Milk crocks, and the little Boy played beside the Dairy, and the good
Woman smiled and was happy.

Then, one day while the little Boy was playing in the clover field, down
the road came an old Witch. She smiled at the Child, and spoke
pleasantly to him, but in her heart was hate and ugliness.

“Come walk with me, my dear,” she said, “and I will give you coffee to
drink.”

The Farmer’s Wife had often told the little Boy never to drink coffee
for it was very bad for Children, but he liked coffee, so he took the
old Witch’s hand and followed her far, far away.

As the sunlight faded from the fields, and night came on, the
Sweet-faced Woman missed the little Boy, and anxiously looked for him,
but nowhere could he be found.

Now Cho-Cho from his Magic Window in the great city had never ceased to
look each day toward the country and the Farm where the Boy lived, and
as he saw the Child grow strong and healthy, he smiled with pleasure,
for Cho-Cho was the Friend of Children.

But today as he looked, to his great surprise, he saw the Sweet-faced
Woman sobbing on her doorstep, and he knew that something must be wrong.
After putting out the living-room fire and locking the door of his
house, Cho-Cho started at once for the Farm. The Woman still sat on her
doorstep, sad with weeping.

“Lady,” said Cho-Cho, “tell me your trouble.”

Then she told him that the little Boy was lost.

“I will find him,” said Cho-Cho, “for I have in my pocket a Magic
Magnet, and when I hold it in my right hand, it will draw me toward
anyone whom I wish to seek. Have courage, I will bring back your little
Boy.”

As he spoke, Cho-Cho drew out the Magic Magnet and held it in his right
hand. Slowly the Magnet turned toward the sunny road, and Cho-Cho walked
on.

The path was very rough and full of sharp stones, and ended at last in
front of an enormous rock. In this rock was an iron door, so stout and
heavy that it could not be opened, unless one had the key, and Cho-Cho
had no key.

As Cho-Cho rested for a bit, feeling rather discouraged, he heard a
voice, and there sat a Red Brown Squirrel.

“What is wrong, Friend?” said the Squirrel.

“A little Boy is lost,” said Cho-Cho, “and I know that he is behind this
wall, but I cannot open the door.”

“I can help you,” said the Squirrel. Stooping, he picked up a small
stone, and began to rub it between his paws. As he rubbed, the stone
turned to iron, and quickly into a key that fitted the lock on the huge
door.

“I thank you,” said Cho-Cho. “What is your name?”

“I am Friendship,” said the Squirrel, “and I will go with you on your
journey.”

Through the great door they went, and on again up the mountain, coming
at last to the top, and there on the ground lay the little Boy. His
clothes were soiled, and torn in many places, for the Witch had dragged
him up the mountainside by one small arm, and the rough stones and
briars had caught his garments as she hurried him onward. He was asleep
where the Witch had thrown him. Cho-Cho’s heart filled with pity when he
saw the little figure lying there. Bending over, Cho-Cho gently touched
the tear-stained face and the little Boy awoke.

“Where is the Witch?” Cho-Cho asked. The little Boy caught his hand in a
frightened grasp. He was so afraid that he could scarcely speak.

“Cho-Cho, take me home,” he sobbed, “take me home, before the Witch
comes back.”

“She shall not hurt you,” Cho-Cho answered. “But where did she go?”

Before the Child could speak, a harsh laugh sounded in their ears, a
heavy stone whistled through the air, and fell beside Cho-Cho, barely
missing his head, then all was very still.

“Stay with the Boy,” Cho-Cho told the friendly Squirrel, “this Witch
shall be punished.”

The Magnet in his hand pointed directly toward a large rock. Its steep
sides were very sharp and rough, and looking up Cho-Cho saw the ugly
Witch standing on the top.

“So I am to be punished, am I?” she screamed, her face distorted by
rage, “I will show you who has power here,” and she hurled a sharp stone
at Cho-Cho. Springing aside, Cho-Cho drew an arrow from its quiver and a
stout bow from his back, and carefully aiming, he pulled the bow string.
The arrow sped through the air, and struck the Witch with such force
that she fell forward, and losing her balance, rolled over and over down
the side of the great rock. When Cho-Cho reached the place where she lay
unconscious, one arm hung limp at her side, broken by the fall. Her feet
were scarred by heavy chains that had once bound her, and looking on her
cruel face Cho-Cho said, “She has been punished enough.”

Then taking the little Boy’s hand, Cho-Cho started back to the Farm
House. The Sweet-faced Woman met them on the road and when she saw the
little Boy, her face lit up with happiness and love.

“What can I do for you, Cho-Cho?” she asked.

“Help little Children,” Cho-Cho answered, and looking at his wrist
watch, he saw it was quite late, and remembering a business engagement
in the city, he hurried away.

[Illustration: [Clown]]

[Illustration: _Will you take me on your back?_]




                        The Little Vegetable Men


One sunny summer day, the little Fairy Health worked among her flowers,
weeding and digging the rich brown earth to make them beautiful. She
sang, as she worked, a gay little song, and tripped lightly here and
there over the grass and flower beds. Stopping at last to wipe the earth
from her hands upon a large lily leaf, for it made a most convenient
towel, she looked up and saw Cho-Cho coming down the road and ran to the
gate to greet him.

Now Cho-Cho was a tiny Elf who loved Children, and he was one of the
Fairy’s oldest friends.

“Fairy,” said Cho-Cho, “in looking from my Magic Window last evening I
saw the old Witch Ignorance abroad. Up and down the city streets she
went and into all the homes where Children live, and on the door of
every house she made a black mark.”

“Oh, Cho-Cho,” said the Fairy, “this means trouble for the Children.”

“Yes,” said Cho-Cho.

Leading him to a seat within her Rose Arbor, the Fairy brought him
sparkling water from her well and bade him rest until he felt refreshed.

As she spoke, through the garden gate came three queer-looking little
Men. The first had the head of a Beet, and his clothes were made from
dull green leaves. His shoes and stockings were beet-colored and in his
hand he carried a green hat.

The second little Man was a white Onion, and his clothes were the green
of onion tops; and the third little fellow had the face of a Carrot, and
he, too, was all in green.

“Fairy,” said the little Man who looked like a Beet, “we are in great
trouble and have come to ask for your help. We are called the Green
Vegetables and are a large and happy family. Last night while we slept,
the wicked Witch Ignorance crept in among us and carried off one of our
little Men. We did not know that he was gone until we were awakened by
his cries, and when we rushed to help him, this cruel Witch beat us to
the ground and sped far away.

“This morning, I found upon my doorstep a letter. It was from the Witch
and said that unless we gave her gold she would return each night and
carry away one of our comrades. Help us, Fairy, for this Witch is very
powerful.”

“Courage, little Man,” said the Fairy, “Cho-Cho and I will help you.”
“Fairy,” said Cho-Cho, “I must find this cruel Witch, for if she hurts
these little Men, the Children will have no Vegetables to eat, and
Children must eat Vegetables. This is what the black mark meant upon the
doors,” and turning, Cho-Cho walked rapidly away.

Now Cho-Cho had a friend, a Wonderful Dog, who could travel like the
wind, and he hurried down the road toward the Dog’s house.

Finding the Dog at home, Cho-Cho told him of the little Men, and added,
“I must find this Witch before nightfall, and it is now noon. I cannot
travel fast enough, for she lives far away. Will you take me on your
back?”

“With pleasure,” said the Dog, “but I do not know the way.” Leaning
forward, Cho-Cho slowly passed his hands before the Dog’s eyes.
Immediately sight was given to the Dog and he could see far off in the
distance the Witch’s house and the road that led to it.

“Hurry,” said Cho-Cho, seating himself upon the Dog’s back, “it grows
late.”

The great Dog started forward and at each step his pace quickened until
his feet scarcely seemed to touch the ground. Faster, faster, and faster
he went, and the wind whistled through his long hair, and his beautiful
tail waved like a plume. Trees and houses flew by them as they rushed
on, and the Dog laughed with glee.

Cho-Cho, clinging on with hands and feet, saw ahead of them a high stone
fence. The Dog went over it in a flying leap and landed safely on the
other side in a field of grass. Here he began to slacken his pace, for
in front of them loomed a dark forest, and only a narrow pathway led
through it.

Entering the forest, the Dog was obliged to walk, as the path grew rough
and steep, and the underbrush on either side was thick and tangled. At
last they came to the mouth of a cave.

“This is the home of the Witch,” said Cho-Cho. “We will hide here in the
bushes.”

Presently they heard a harsh laugh and the ugly Witch came forth from
the shadow of the cave. She paused a moment, dazzled by the sunlight,
and Cho-Cho could see clearly the deep scars on her bare ankles, made by
chains that had once bound her, and her left arm hung in a sling.

Drawing from his pocket a bright crystal ball, he flashed it directly in
the Witch’s eyes.

She stood spellbound for several minutes holding one hand to her head,
then her body slowly relaxed and she slipped down upon the pathway.

Cho-Cho stepped forth from his hiding place among the bushes, and stood
beside the Witch.

She lay quite still as though asleep. “Lie there for two and twenty
hours,” Cho-Cho said, “and when you awaken your sight shall be so dimmed
that never again shall you see clearly—never again shall you molest the
Green Vegetables.”

Then they went forward into the cave to find the little Vegetable Man.
He lay upon the ground, bound hand and foot, trembling with fear.

“Courage, little Man,” said Cho-Cho, “we are your friends and have come
to take you home,” and cutting his bonds, they led him forth from the
cave.

“Who are you, Friends?” said the little Man.

“I am Cho-Cho, the Friend of the Children, and this Dog is called
Publicity,” said Cho-Cho. “We work together for the Health of the
Children.”

Then mounting the Dog’s broad back, they started on their homeward
journey.

That night from his Magic Window, Cho-Cho beheld a strange sight, for in
the fields and gardens the little Vegetable Men were dancing in the
Moonlight, and as they danced, they sang with joy, for the old Witch
Ignorance lay helpless in the Forest and they were safe from harm.

[Illustration: [Dancing Vegetables]]

[Illustration: _O Cho-Cho, the lovely bird is hurt._]




                            The Lovely Bird


One summer day when the city streets were full of heat and dust, and all
the world seemed tired, Cho-Cho’s thoughts turned longingly to the
country and to the lovely Garden of the little Fairy Health.

Packing his bag and locking the door of his house, Cho-Cho started on a
visit to the Fairy.

Within the Fairy’s Garden, screened from the road by trees and bushes,
was a lovely dell, and in the center of the dell a Fountain, so
beautiful that all who saw it paused to admire its sparkling waters and
the beauty of its sculptured figure. This figure was of white marble,
carved with rare skill into the form of a little child, and from its
uplifted hand the waters of the fountain sprang.

Cho-Cho found the Fairy resting in the cool shade and sank into a seat
beside her.

“Fairy,” said Cho-Cho, “I am grieved about my Children.”

“What is wrong, Cho-Cho?” said the little Fairy.

“There are two Imps,” said Cho-Cho, “going into all the houses where
children live. One is called Dirt, and he leaves upon the Children’s
hands and faces and in their hair and on their clothes ugly black marks.
The other Imp is called Neglect, and he whispers to the Children not to
clean their teeth, or brush their hair, or bathe their bodies. I saw
these Imps from my Magic Window, Fairy, and I came to ask your help.
What shall we do?”

“I have a strong friend,” said the Fairy, “a Lovely Bird, called
Education, and he will go to the Teachers, and they will teach the
Children how to be cleanly, and to love the cool pure water.”

As she spoke, they heard a noise of wings, and the Lovely Bird fluttered
to the ground. Then the Fairy told him of their trouble.

“Courage,” said the Bird, “I will go to the Teachers, but my way will be
full of peril, for these Imps are powerful and they will try to hold me
back. Each day you must watch within this dell. If I am hurt, you will
find beside the fountain a Blue-Gray Feather. Then, Cho-Cho, you must
hasten to my aid.”

As he said this, the Lovely Bird rose into the air, and mounted higher
and higher, until he was lost to their view. Day after day Cho-Cho and
the Fairy sat beside the fountain watching for the Feather, and after
many days had passed, they began to hope that Education had safely
reached the Teachers.

Then one day, slowly circling downward from the sky, came a Blue-Gray
Feather, and rested at their feet.

“Oh, Cho-Cho,” said the Fairy, “the Lovely Bird is hurt,” and laying her
head upon the fountain’s edge, she sobbed with grief and disappointment.

“Courage,” said Cho-Cho, “I have a noble ally, a Wonderful Dog, who can
travel like the wind. His name is Publicity, and he will help Education.
His home is not far distant. Be brave. The Lovely Bird shall soon be
free.”

Then Cho-Cho hastened to the home of the Dog. Arriving there, he rapped
smartly on the door, which was opened by the Dog’s wife, who said he was
just finishing his breakfast—that he would be out immediately.

In a few minutes the Dog appeared. Then Cho-Cho told him of the Lovely
Bird.

“I shall be glad to help,” said the Wonderful Dog, “but how shall I find
the way?”

Taking from his pocket the Blue-Gray Feather, Cho-Cho held it before the
Dog’s nose. He sniffed it eagerly and then throwing up his head, laughed
with glee. “Get up quickly, Cho-Cho,” he said, and Cho-Cho sprang upon
his back.

The great Dog bounded through the door and out into the road, and with a
sharp bark was off like wind.

The Children scurried from the roadside, and people standing in their
doorways gazed with wonder as the Dog rushed by. Through villages and
towns he went, and everywhere the people ran out to see Publicity pass.

They left the houses far behind, and still the great Dog did not slacken
his pace, until they came to desolate fields and a countryside where no
trees grew.

On all sides stretched these lonely fields, with no signs of life,
except where far away to the right rose the dark outline of a house. A
rough path led toward it, and following this road the Dog went forward.
As they drew nearer they could see the house was of stone, and had no
windows on the lower floor. Up near the roof were narrow windows set
deep in the wall. Only a great door in the front, made of iron, gave
entrance to the house, and this was tightly locked.

Sitting on the ground, the Dog took from his neck a stout collar made of
heavy leather and brass, and opening a pocket on the inside of this
collar, he took out a Golden Key.

This key fitted the lock, and entering a large room they found the Imps
asleep before a fire. As the great door creaked upon its rusty hinges
the Imps awakened and sprang to their feet.

“What have you done with the Lovely Bird?” Cho-Cho demanded. “I have
seen no bird,” said the Imp called Dirt. “You may search this house from
dark cellar to dusty garret if you doubt my word.”

Cho-Cho turned to his friend the Dog. “Watch here,” he said, “and see to
it that these Imps do not escape.” Then holding his Magic Magnet in his
hand he looked about the room. The Magnet turned toward the door at the
far corner, and Cho-Cho following the Magnet entered a dark and narrow
passage, that seemed to lead on and on. He could not see, but Cho-Cho’s
stout heart knew no fear for he possessed magic power, that protected
him from all evil—so he called to his friend the Moon and asked for
help. Mr. Moon had not yet risen, but he sent for his chief Clerk and
gave an order, “Send down to my friend Cho-Cho one of our latest
flashlights,” he said, “one of Golden Light, that will turn the darkest
dungeon into the light of day.”

So in the shortest possible time Cho-Cho held in his hand a powerful
flashlight that showed him every corner of the dark passage, but no
matter how carefully he looked he could find no trace of the Lovely
Bird.

Standing there thinking, he heard a faint sound that seemed to come from
within the wall, and looking at his Magnet found that it pointed
directly opposite.

With his ear at the wall, he heard the sound clearer—then suddenly his
eye caught the glint of steel, and he saw a small bright spot about the
size of a pea. Cho-Cho pressed the spot and the wall opened showing a
tiny room. The Lovely Bird lay on the floor, too weak to fly—so Cho-Cho
carried him forth and helped him on the Dog’s back.

The wicked Imps knew that their punishment was near and cowered in the
corner.

Then Cho-Cho bound the two Imps with strong cords. Standing them back to
back he tied their arms together and also their legs, so that they could
go neither forward nor backward, and mounting the back of his friend the
Wonderful Dog, he started homeward.

They could hear the cries of the Imps far down the roadway, for each one
blamed the other with ugly words for what had happened.

When Education felt stronger he flew forward with his Message to the
Teachers.

And everywhere the Teachers received him with the deepest interest, and
now all over this great country Children are being taught the beauty of
cleanliness and the love of fresh air and pure water.

As the Children learn these wholesome health habits, they in turn teach
others, and in every home tooth brushes and soap and pure water are to
be found, and busy mothers go about their work with cheerful faces, for
their Children are healthy and clean and happy.

[Illustration: _The company was all assembled_]




                           The Fairy’s Party


Neighbors passing the house of the little Fairy Health, one lovely
summer day, noticed a most unusual stir and bustle. Large and small
packages were continually arriving and the neat little housemaid was
kept quite busy opening and closing the door to receive them.

The Fairy, flitting here and there among the flower beds, was accosted
by one curious neighbor and asked what it all meant.

With her hands full of flowers the Fairy paused to answer him:

“I am giving a party this afternoon,” she said, “to friends from a
distance, and we are all very busy.”

Cho-Cho, arriving about this time, was told to leave his bag in the
house and hurry back to help gather roses.

The curious neighbor departed, and Cho-Cho and the Fairy worked for an
hour, gathering flowers and vines, to make the beautiful house more
beautiful.

At last it was all finished, and the Fairy hurried upstairs to don her
party gown before the guests should arrive.

When she came down the stairs a half hour later, Cho-Cho, waiting in the
hallway, held his breath in admiration, for the little Fairy was so
lovely that words can scarce describe her. Her gown fell in graceful
lines about her slender figure—neck and arms were bare, and her
flower-like face crowned with its shining hair was radiant with joy.
Forget-me-nots were twined among her curls, and she carried a bunch of
them in her shapely hands. No jewels adorned the Fairy, but in every way
she expressed simplicity and grace.

Cho-Cho, coming forward, dropped lightly on one knee, and taking the
Fairy’s hand, raised it to his lips.

“You are wonderful,” he said.

“You like my gown, Cho-Cho?” she questioned, and smiled upon him, for
these two were old and tried friends.

A noise from without told of the advent of a guest, and Health went
forward to greet the visitor.

It proved to be the Persian Cat, looking quite handsome in a soft-gray
hat, which he gracefully doffed to the Fairy, and he carried a
gold-headed cane.

One could well imagine him a great favorite with the ladies, for he was
indeed a finished dandy.

“You rival your flowers in beauty, Fairy,” he said, as he took her hand.

At the noise of the garden gate closing, they looked up to behold the
Wonderful Dog and his wife coming toward them.

The Wonderful Dog had on a smart new collar, and came forward with
dignity to present his wife to the Fairy, for they had never met.

Mrs. Dog was a fluffy little thing, who seemed really to care more about
her new dress and the latest style than any other subject.

The next arrival was the little Boy from the Farm. He came timidly
toward the group, looking rather frightened, but when he spied his old
friend, Cho-Cho, all his fears vanished and he smiled with pleasure.

They were busily chatting in the Rose Arbor, when the little Vegetable
Men came softly in and stood beside the Fairy.

She welcomed them with kindness, for these were modest little people and
felt rather strange among the handsome company.

With a whirr of wings and a flash of color, the Lovely Bird and his
brother Rumor were among them and congratulated the Fairy on the perfect
weather she was having for her Fête.

The company were all assembled now except the Red Brown Squirrel, and
the Fairy asked if anyone had seen him on the high-road as they came
hither. But no one had heard of him, although the Persian Cat had come
from that direction.

An hour slipped by. The Fairy was growing anxious and Cho-Cho repeatedly
looked at his watch.

At last he said:

“With your permission, Fairy, I will go look for the Red Brown Squirrel.
He was my friend and I greatly fear some evil has befallen him.”

“I, too, will go,” said the Cat, “there are many dangers upon the
high-road, and a comrade may be needed.”

“I am with you,” said the Dog. “Lead on, Cho-Cho.”

“Friends,” said the Persian Cat, “I believe I can find the Red Brown
Squirrel. Between his home and the Fairy’s garden there lives an evil
imp, called Jealousy. I passed him today as I journeyed hither and he
scowled upon me with a look of rage. He was afraid to attack me, but the
Squirrel is small and not a match for this cruel imp, and has doubtless
fallen a victim to his malice.”

“Hasten, hasten,” said Cho-Cho, and passing through the gate he started
briskly toward the Squirrel’s home.

The Cat and the Dog followed and all three were soon lost to the view of
the anxious company in the Fairy’s garden.

The friends covered the ground rapidly and were nearing the home of the
Red Brown Squirrel, when Cho-Cho’s sharp eyes spied a half-eaten nut
lying in the roadway.

There were no trees near, and they knew that it must have been dropped
by their friend.

Looking eagerly upon the ground, they discovered the tiny footprints of
the Squirrel and the larger ones of the flat-footed imp, leading into a
field of tall grass.

Here the Cat went forward, for his sharp eyes could distinguish the
footprints with great ease. Following these signs they crossed the field
and came out upon an unused road that sloped downward, until they found
themselves beside a deep river which seemed impossible to pass.

“Get upon my back,” said the Wonderful Dog, “the River is my comrade, it
will not harm you.”

With ease and confidence he swam forward, and carried them to safety on
the further bank.

Cho-Cho and the Persian Cat stepped from the Dog’s back and turned to
thank him, when from behind a large rock, the ugly imp darted out and
sprang toward Cho-Cho, trying to push him into the river. But the Cat,
catching the imp by the neck, held him firmly, and he was powerless to
do aught but scream.

Binding him fast they went behind the great rock and found the Red Brown
Squirrel in chains.

The Cat set him free and the friendly Squirrel stood up before them
brave and unhurt.

Then they hurried back to the Fairy and were received with relief and
pleasure.

And now, the Fairy with the Wonderful Dog leads the way to the
dining-room. The Persian Cat gracefully offers his arm to little Mrs.
Dog. Cho-Cho and the Boy come hand in hand, followed by the Lovely Bird
and Mr. Beet. The Red Brown Squirrel is telling the story of his
adventure to Mr. Onion, and Rumor and Mr. Carrot bring up the rear.

The dining-room is a mass of roses and smilax, and in the center, a
table full of all the delicious things that children like.

Mrs. Dog remarks that the decorations are lovely, and the Persian Cat
replies that the ladies are more beautiful than the flowers.

The little Fairy flits here and there among her guests, seeing, with
charming courtesy, that all their wants are well supplied, and when at
last they can eat no more, Cho-Cho rises, and with a glass of sparkling
lemonade proposes a toast:

“To our charming hostess, the Fairy Health.”

With a right good will the company drink the toast, then led by the
Persian Cat they leave the house and with laughter and jest pass by
lovely garden paths out to the fountain—and so the fun goes on, ending
at last with a dance in the dell, and joy and happiness in every heart.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




 The Macmillan Company has arranged to publish a series of health books
              for the CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION of America

[Illustration: _Health in Education_       _Education in Health_]

THE CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION has undertaken a nation-wide campaign to
raise the health standard of the school child.

The following books are now ready:

                     _Rosy Cheeks and Strong Heart_
                     _Rhymes of Cho-Cho’s Grandma_
                     _Cho-Cho and the Health Fairy_
                     _Child Health Alphabet_

                 Price list furnished upon application

Order from any of the following addresses of

                         THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

                             New York
                             64 Fifth
                             Avenue

                             Chicago
                             25th St. &
                             Prairie Ave.

                             San Francisco
                             609 Mission
                             Street

                             Boston
                             Huntington
                             Chambers

                             Dallas
                             330 S. Harwood
                             Street

  Literature published separately by the CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION of
                                America

      _Weight Card—Tags—Posters_
      _Health in Play—My Health Book_
      _Standards of Nutrition and Growth_
      _The Demonstration and Its Application_
      _The Nutrition Class_
      _Alphabet Cards. A to Z_
      _Health Plays for School Children_
      _Four Plays Dramatizing “Cho-Cho and Health Fairy” Stories_
      _Happy’s Calendar_
      _Milk, the Master Carpenter_
      _Cho-Cho’s Health Game_

                 Price list furnished upon application
          Order from the CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION of America
       Penn Terminal Building, 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City


                     THE U. S. BUREAU OF EDUCATION
          has arranged for the sale of the following Reprints:

 _Class Room Weight Record_
 _Right Height and Weight for Boys_
 _Right Height and Weight for Girls_
 _Wanted! Teachers to Enlist for Health Service_
 _Diet for the School Child_
 _Summer Health and Play School_
 _Teaching Health_
 _Child Health Program for Parent-Teacher Associations and Women’s Clubs_
 _Further Steps in Teaching Health_
 _The Lunch Hour at School_
 _Suggestions for a Program for Health Teaching in the Elementary
    Schools_
 _Your Opportunity in the Schools_
 _Health Training for Teachers_

  Orders for these should be sent to: The Superintendent of Documents,
                          Government Printing
  Office, Washington, D. C. (_Remittance must accompany all orders._)


                  CHILD HEALTH ORGANIZATION of America

                           Board of Trustees

                  Dr. L. EMMETT HOLT, _President_
                  Dr. THOMAS D. WOOD, _Vice-President_
                  Dr. FREDERICK PETERSON, _Secretary_
                  JAMES G. BERRIEN, _Treasurer_
                  Mrs. JOHN COLLIER
                  CLINTON H. CRANE
                  Dr. SAMUEL MCC. HAMILL
                  Dr. ROYAL S. HAYNES
                  Dr. VICTOR G. HEISER
                  OWEN R. LOVEJOY
                  Mrs. FREDERICK PETERSON
                  Dr. BERNARD SACHS
                  Mrs. FRANK A. VANDERLIP
                  Dr. PHILIP VAN INGEN
                  ALLAN WARDWELL
                  Miss FLORENCE WARDWELL
                  Dr. HERBERT B. WILCOX
                  Dr. C.-E. A. WINSLOW

                                  STAFF

                       SALLY LUCAS JEAN, _Director_

 Associate Directors: MARIE L. ROSE ANNE L. WHITNEY ANNE RAYMOND, _Field
                             Representative_
    Assistants: GRACE T. HALLOCK   MARGARET C. CAREY   ALICE F. LOOMIS
      Advisory Directors: J. MACE ANDRESS   LUCY OPPEN   MABEL BRAGG

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 ● Typos fixed; non-standard spelling and dialect retained.
 ● Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73840 ***
